Stake Land (2010)
Not a film to sink your teeth into
8 June 2011 - 20 out of 47 users found this review helpful.
STAKE LAND from Director Jim Mickle this vampire / zombie horror flick tells the story of an unstoppable vampire / zombie plague epidemic that spreads across America (and I presume the world?)  and our band of gallant survivors have to battle their way through the hoards of zombies through to "New Eden" (Canada) where the plague hasn't yet taken hold  hmmm ... now where have I heard this plot line before ? (28 Days Later, I am Legend, and numerous others) 

Within the first two minutes, Martin's family is killed by zombies, and he himself only survives because of the intervention of a mysterious stranger "Mister", a self-styled vampire stalker / executioner  who comes to his aid.

Mister and Martin realise that their chances are better together than apart  so they strike up an unlikely partnership  in their quest to get to New Eden.

Their journey leads them through remote towns of America's heartland, to other fearful survivors that cling together in rural pockets, fearful of nightfall (when the vampires attack).

Cautiously moving ever north, using back roads, avoiding populated areas they pick up rag-tag stragglers along the way, including a nun (Kelly McGillis) who they rescue as she is being attacked by rapists, Belle – a pregnant teenager, Willie – an ex-marine and Peggy the sole survivor of a family that was attacked by the vampires.

Another danger they face is the Brethren, a fundamentalist militia headed by Jebedia Loven that interprets the plague as the Lord's work. Jebedia and his followers consider Mister as a mortal enemy, as one of the rapists Mister killed was Jebedia's son.

So much for the summary / pretext of the story, now to the REAL part of the review  this film (which is really being "bigged-up" by a huge advertising campaign is a bitter disappointment  it is a real pile of drivel 

Whoever wrote the music score for this film needs shooting  it was totally inconsistent with what action was taking place  the direction, script, casting, acting, editing and photography were truly woeful 

There really is nothing positive to recommend this movie The ONLY actor to any semblance of credibility was Michael Cerveris – who played the role of Jebedia Loven the twisted leader of the "Brethren"

Everybody else should rapidly remove this movie from their CV's if they would like to work again 

STAKE LAND adds nothing new  it's a very poor film, it is not even scary  it went down well in the US (Quelle surprise!)  but that probably says more about American tastes than the quality of the film

I expect this film to "bomb" over here  word of mouth will not sell this film ... it is definitely not a film to sink your teeth into